Title: mp3.py is dead, long live mp3.py!
Date: 2004-02-01

<p>When I showed <code>mp3.py</code> to the world it was without too
much forethought on my part, which has naturally come back to haunt me.
The problem is that <code>mp3.py</code> was originally part of another
project (<a href='http://ibofobi.dk/stuff/jukebox/'>Jukebox</a>), and so
it did not have <code>setup.py</code>, unittests or anything of that
sort. That I have now decided to remedy by giving <code>mp3.py</code>
it's own project: <a href='http://ibofobi.dk/stuff/mp3/'>mp3
tools</a>.</p>

<h3>Spring cleaning</h3>

<p>At the same time I also did some spring-cleaning in the code.  This
means that <code>mp3.frames</code> no longer know the
<code>max_skip</code> or <code>skip_data</code> arguments.</p>

<h4><code>max_skip</code></h4>

<p><code>max_skip</code> was needed for working around all the broken
MP3-files that exist in the wild, it controlled if
<code>mp3.frames</code> should be strict or lenient. Now, it is always
strict. This, of course, means that all the broken MP3-files out there
cannot be read with this library.  Instead the new library comes with a
utility for fixing the broken MP3-files, <code>repair-mp3</code> reads
MP3-files like your normal MP3-player (silently skipping over junk), and
rewrites them with only good the MP3-frames and ID3-tags intact.</p>

<h4><code>skip_data</code></h4>

<p><code>skip_data</code> was added after <a title="Ned Batchelder's
homepage" href='http://www.nedbatchelder.com/'>Ned Batchelder</a>
suggested that reading the MP3 frame data into core was overkill for his
<a href='http://www.nedbatchelder.com/code/utilities/m3utree_py.html'
title='m3utree utility homepage'><code>m3utree</code></a> utility.  But,
<code>mp3.frames</code> is a generator, so it never reads more than one
frame into core at any time. Since most MP3 frames around 500 bytes long
the overhead is negligible.

I added the code because a few test-runs indicated a rather big speedup
when <code>seek</code>'ing past the frame data. But, it seems I screwed
up the original benchmarks, because now I get a slight slowdown when
<code>seek</code>'ing past frame data. Given that the code is causing a
slowdown and complicating <code>mp3.frames</code>, I have decided to cut
it.</p>